# CS-305 Reflection Journal
This document is a reflection on the challenges presented in SNHU Computer Science course CS-305 and the lessons learned therein. 
## Client
Artemis Financial is a fictitious financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their customers that include savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. Artemis Financial sought to review and improve their security as they introduced new functionality to their internal client management software. They wished for Global Rain (a fictitious company that I am employed by in the theoretical scenario) to review their current software and determine vulnerabilities. In addition, Artemis Financial wished to add a secure file verification function (in the form of a checksum) to ensure that the files being submitted from the client were the same as the files the server receives. 
## Personal Strengths & Security 
I did an excellent job documenting the vulnerabilities I discovered in Artemis Financial's current web application via manual code review and static testing. I combed through each vulnerability reported by Maven-Dependency-Check and provided links to further details for each vulnerability. In addition, I recommended solutions to each vulnerability (most of which could have been mitigated by updating dependencies. Secure code is important for several reasons:
- It's the most responsible thing to do, especially in a world where breaches are so common place that the public is rarely aware of them despite them being reported
- It protects the programmer, the programmer's client (if applicable), and the client's customers
- Secure software reduces breaches, which reduces lawsuits and other losses that a company can be held responsible for, which saves money and resources for all parties involved
## Challenges
The most challenging aspect of the vulnerability assessment was actually combing through the vast number of vulnerabilities in the dependency-check-report. There were so many vulnerabilities reported that it was daunting to start reviewing the list. On top of that, several vulnerabilities identified were duplicates of previously identified vulnerabilities. Lastly, I had a lot of difficulty determing what would be considered a "false positive" considering how many of the dependencies were in serious need of an update. Multiple assignments stated that we "weren't allowed to change anything yet." Thus, it was hard to determine what should be considered a false positive. 
## Improvements & Mitigations
I made a few improvements to Artemis Financial's code base. I ensured that variables that didn't *need* to be public weren't. In addition, there was a function that opened a connection but never actually used it or closed it, so I addressed that issue by adding conditional statements for opening and endingthe connection. In the future, I would utilize static testing to determine dependency vulnerabilities. However, identifying issues with manual code review may be a more difficult task, depending on the depth, size, and complexity of the program. Since security is an always-evolving field, the techniques I've learned in this course may be obsolete by the time I have the oppurtunity to actually apply them. Thus, I would determine the appropriate mitigation techniques by researching the most up-to-date solutions to security issues.
## Security & Vulnerability Verification
To ensure security and functionality, I ran manual tests and additional dependency vulnerability tests. For privitizing variables, I ensured they were secure by trying to access properties of objects that should not be able to be directly accessed (via index or dot notation, depending on the implementation of the object). For conditional testing, I ran tests that fulfilled and did not fulfill the respective conditions as well as let an open connection sit until the timeout eventually closed the connection. Lastly, I tested to see if I introduced any new vulnerabilities by running an additional Maven-dependency-check. 
## Resources, Tools, and Practices
Numerous resources were provided as part of the instruction for CS-305. Here are some of the most valuable resources I discovered during the course:
- [Secure Coding Guidelines for JAVA SE](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/seccodeguide.html)
- [OWASP Secure Coding Practices Quick Reference Guide](https://owasp.org/www-pdf-archive/OWASP_SCP_Quick_Reference_Guide_v1.pdf)
- [CVE List Database](https://cve.mitre.org/cve/search_cve_list.html)
- [National Vulnerability Database (NVD)](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/search)
- [Spring Quickstart Guide](https://spring.io/quickstart)
## Future Applicability 
In the future, I may show this work to potential employers to emphasize my knowledge of security and how serious it is. In addition, this project shows my ability to make self-contained code that can be passed on to other programs for further implementation. Yet another aspect the work in this course displays is my ability to provide clear, concise, and informative documentation. Lastly, I utilize formal coding practices such as commenting and clear variable names to make code readable and easy to follow. 
